This is a basic skeleton of the database, with each Tables:

KartavyaPortfolio:
{"_id":{"$oid":"67c94ac4ffb6ed61a7b04615"},"userName":"##HASHED USERNAME","password":"##HASHED PASSWORD"}

KartavyaPortfolioOTP: Mostly Empty
{"_id":{"$oid":"67caada4760fdbba1b1eb607"},"otp":"670934","expireTime":{"$date":{"$numberLong":"1741336272968"}}}

experienceTable:
{"_id":{"$oid":"672989db2c304b38c4ad6355"},"experienceTitle":"Data Science Intern","experienceLink":"data-science-intern","experienceImages":["https://i.ibb.co/hX5QF9y/Byte-Link-Sys.jpg"],"experienceSubTitle":"Byte Link Systems | Houston, TX","experienceTimeline":"May 2022 - July 2022","experienceTagline":"Designed and deployed a global Pneumonia growth analysis PowerBI dashboard with advanced Python and Machine Learning proficiency, utilizing various algorithms and tools.","experienceParagraphs":["My internship at Byte Links Systems from May 2022 to July 2022 was a pivotal experience, marking my first foray into the professional world as well as my introduction to AI and machine learning. As a Data Science Intern, I was tasked with understanding the core concepts of AI, data analysis, and model development, all of which were new territories for me. The first half of my internship focused heavily on the fundamentals, where I learned to handle real-world datasets, clean and preprocess data, and structure data pipelines. This period was invaluable as I developed a solid grasp of Python, particularly with libraries like NumPy and Pandas, while also exploring machine learning techniques such as supervised and unsupervised learning.","As I advanced, I had the opportunity to work with a team of highly skilled and supportive colleagues who guided me through the complexities of model development. Together, we tackled everything from logistic regression to more intricate algorithms like gradient boosting and neural networks, which broadened my understanding of how AI-driven solutions are structured. I learned how to choose the right algorithm for specific types of data, evaluate model performance, and iteratively improve accuracy. This collaborative environment fostered a sense of confidence and encouraged me to ask questions and experiment, ultimately leading to a deeper knowledge of machine learning and data science.","Our primary project focused on building a PowerBI dashboard to analyze the global growth patterns of pneumonia. By incorporating advanced machine learning models, we identified critical factors and trends in the spread of pneumonia across cities, countries, and continents. This project allowed me to apply my newfound skills in machine learning, data visualization, and analytics, helping us achieve a 20% increase in prediction accuracy. Designing and deploying this dashboard required integrating various tools such as SQL, Tableau, and PySpark, which significantly enhanced my technical proficiency and gave me hands-on experience in creating end-to-end solutions.","Reflecting on this internship, I realize it was an incredible learning experience that shaped my approach to AI and data science. Working alongside a knowledgeable team taught me the importance of collaboration and open communication in complex projects. This experience not only strengthened my technical abilities but also fueled my passion for data-driven solutions and set a strong foundation for my career in AI and machine learning."],"experienceURLs":["https://www.bytelinksys.com/about-us/"]}

honorsExperienceTable:
{"_id":{"$oid":"6729a51483b18265cbdbf64d"},"honorsExperienceTitle":"Discord Bot Developer","honorsExperienceLink":"discord-bot-developer","honorsExperienceImages":["https://i.ibb.co/k5Y293M/Discord-Exp.png"],"honorsExperienceSubTitle":"University of Cincinnati Honors Experience","honorsExperienceTimeline":"October 2020 - August 2021","honorsExperienceTagline":"Created a robust Discord utility bot with music, games, and data storage capabilities, and an unique Card Game Appplication.","honorsExperienceParagraphs":["As a programming enthusiast, I have always been fascinated by the world of bots and automation. And what better way to apply my skills than to develop my own Discord bot application. In October 2020, I embarked on this project, determined to create a comprehensive and functional bot that would enhance the Discord experience for users.","I started by researching the various libraries available for Discord bot development, and after evaluating several options, I settled on using Discord.js and Discord.py. These libraries provided an extensive set of tools and resources for building a versatile and reliable bot. I also decided to use the Math.js library of JavaScript to enable the bot to perform mathematical calculations and computations.","One of the primary goals of my bot was to create a utility tool that would allow users to manage and customize their Discord channels, roles, and other server settings. With this in mind, I began developing the bot's core functions, which included the ability to create, delete, and modify channels and roles. I also added several other useful features, such as setting custom welcome messages, adding or removing members, and assigning roles based on specific criteria.","As the bot took shape, I realized that it would be incomplete without a music bot component. Thus, I started working on integrating a music player into the bot, allowing users to play their favorite songs and playlists. I made sure to include features such as volume control, skip and repeat functions, and the ability to create and manage playlists.","Another aspect of my bot that I wanted to develop was the gaming component. I started by creating a two-player tic-tac-toe game that users could play against each other. I then moved on to developing a single-player word scramble game, where users had to unscramble words to score points. To add more excitement, I created a single-player fighting game that allowed users to battle against a bot opponent. And to take things to the next level, I developed a multiplayer card fighting game, called AniCard Bot, where users could select action anime characters and fight against each other.","As the bot continued to evolve, I added more features, such as user data storage on MongoDB, enabling the bot to store user preferences and settings. I also created a help command that provided users with a list of available commands and their functions. I made sure to test and debug the bot thoroughly to ensure that it functioned correctly and efficiently.","Over the next few months, the bot gained popularity and attracted a growing community of users. As the number of users increased, I realized that I needed to improve the bot's scalability and performance. I restructured the code and optimized the algorithms, which resulted in a significant improvement in the bot's response time.","Throughout the development process, I encountered several challenges and obstacles that tested my programming skills and patience. One of the biggest challenges was dealing with the various errors and bugs that inevitably arise in complex software projects. I had to learn to debug and troubleshoot effectively to ensure that the bot ran smoothly.","Another challenge was keeping up with the ever-evolving Discord platform and its changing APIs. Discord frequently releases updates and changes to its APIs, which can affect the bot's functionality. I had to stay up to date with the latest developments and adapt my code accordingly.","Despite these challenges, I found the development process to be incredibly rewarding and fulfilling. The bot became a labor of love, and I spent countless hours refining and improving its features. The positive feedback from the users and their appreciation for the bot made all the effort worthwhile.","In August 2021, I decided to take a break from any further advancements to the project and focus on each functionality to develop it at its best. However, the experience of developing a Discord bot application taught me valuable skills in programming, problem-solving, and project management. It also allowed me to interact with a diverse and vibrant community of Discord users and learn about their needs and preferences.","Although currently, in 2023, I am no longer actively developing the bot, I still receive messages from users asking for assistance or suggesting new features. It is heartening to see that the bot has made a positive impact on the Discord community, and I am proud to have contributed to it.","Looking back at the project, I realized that the most crucial factor in its success was my passion for programming and my willingness to learn and explore new technologies. As I navigated the challenges and obstacles that came my way, I constantly reminded myself of the reasons why I started the project and the goals that I wanted to achieve. This kept me motivated and focused, even when the going got tough.","In conclusion, the experience of developing a Discord bot application has been one of the most rewarding and fulfilling projects I have undertaken. It allowed me to apply my programming skills to practical and real-world problems, and it taught me valuable lessons in project management, problem-solving, and teamwork. I encourage anyone who is interested in programming and bot development to try their hand at building a Discord bot application. With the right mindset and determination, anyone can create a functional and versatile bot that can enhance the Discord experience for users.",""],"honorsExperienceURLs":["https://github.com/Kartavya904/AniRaid-Testing-Coding-Dominion-Bot"]}

involvementTable:
{"_id":{"$oid":"6729968a83b18265cbdbf649"},"involvementTitle":"RevolutionUC","involvementLink":"revolutionuc","involvementImages":["https://i.ibb.co/Ttxczv8/RevUC.png"],"involvementSubTitle":"University of Cincinnati | Cincinnati, OH","involvementTimeline":"February 2022 - Current","involvementTagline":"RevolutionUC is a platform where I push my boundaries, lead impactful projects, and grow through collaboration and innovation in technology.","involvementParagraphs":["RevolutionUC has been an incredible platform for me to challenge myself, build unique projects, and grow as a team leader and developer. Over the years, I participated in three RevolutionUC hackathons, winning awards in each and embracing the opportunity to lead teams, organize workflows, and create dynamic schedules to ensure each project was completed with high standards. I enjoyed working alongside motivated peers, assisting team members whenever needed, and ensuring smooth project flow.","My first hackathon project, Virtual Office Space, created a calming digital environment that allowed users, especially researchers, to display and explore data interactively. Inspired by data presentation tools like Jupyter notebooks and VR environments like VR Chat, we developed a virtual space with Unity and C#, enabling users to explore the web and learn through immersive experiences. Despite technical challenges, like integrating VR support and loading web pages correctly, we achieved a significant milestone with our “spawn web browser” feature, allowing users to position virtual displays. This project won the Digital Futures Storytelling Prize, and as my first project, it marked the beginning of my passion for hackathons and virtual environments.","Next came BearChat, an offline chatbot tailored for University of Cincinnati students. BearChat served as a campus-specific assistant, offering navigation, event updates, weather information, and mental health support resources. Using NLTK, TensorFlow, and PyTorch for the chatbot's backend and integrating it with Flask for the frontend, we built a functional prototype that resonated with the university’s needs. We faced challenges with integrating TensorFlow and Flask, yet our perseverance paid off, and BearChat won the Best Use of Google Cloud award. This project underscored my enthusiasm for creating tools that simplify campus life, and I loved coordinating our team’s efforts toward a meaningful end product.","My latest project, HealthSphere, was inspired by the goal of providing users with data-driven wellness insights. Built with Flask, PostgreSQL, and Taipy, HealthSphere empowers users to track their health metrics and receive personalized wellness recommendations. The project presented technical challenges, including seamless data integration, complex data visualizations, and real-time analytics, all while adhering to data privacy standards. Through iterative design and rigorous testing, we developed a user-friendly platform that received the Best Digital Solution to Improve the Clinical Trial Process and Best Use of Taipy awards. This experience deepened my appreciation for the potential of technology to positively impact health and well-being and strengthened my skills in data management and user-centric design.","These RevolutionUC hackathons have been transformative, allowing me to lead teams, tackle complex challenges, and contribute to projects that aim to make a real difference. Each hackathon has not only been a step forward in my technical journey but also a reminder of the importance of collaboration, creativity, and perseverance."],"involvementURLs":["https://github.com/Kartavya904/Hackathon_Project_Files","https://devpost.com/software/virtual-office-space","https://youtu.be/oU7lyxzS4Bo","https://github.com/Kartavya904/BearChat-RevolutionUC2023","https://devpost.com/software/bearchat","https://youtu.be/oz7M1XptE8Q","https://github.com/Kartavya904/2024-RevolutionUC-Hackathon","https://devpost.com/software/healthsphere","https://youtu.be/K74ENN8pJXU"]}

projectTable:
{"_id":{"$oid":"67295f80c06a51a78f579c83"},"projectTitle":"Sales Management System","projectLink":"sales-management-system","projectImages":["https://i.ibb.co/pwQ6033/loading-gif.gif"],"projectSubTitle":"","projectTimeline":"May 2020","projectTagline":"Developed a Sales Management System using Python, encompassing shopkeepers' sales and customer billing management.","projectParagraphs":["In May 2020, I developed my first full-stack project—a Sales Management System built using Python. This high school project was a significant milestone in my coding journey, as it required me to design and implement an application from scratch, encompassing everything from shopkeepers' sales tracking to customer billing management. The experience gave me a hands-on understanding of how different components in a full-stack system work together, which was both challenging and incredibly rewarding.","Through this project, I learned invaluable lessons in coding practices, problem-solving, and structuring code for long-term use. Building the system from the ground up pushed me to master the fundamentals, especially when handling the complexities of data flow and ensuring accurate billing calculations. The project not only solidified my foundation in Python but also gave me a taste of the importance of backend and frontend integration, something that has continued to influence my approach to projects ever since.","Reflecting on this experience, I realize how much it shaped my passion for full-stack development. This early project taught me the discipline of clear coding, documentation, and the joy of creating functional tools that could simplify real-world tasks. It’s a project I’m proud of, as it marked the start of my journey toward becoming a full-stack developer."],"projectURLs":["https://github.com/Kartavya904/High-School-Sales-Management-System-Project"]}

skillsCollection:
{"_id":{"$oid":"67668005af0e8a9531ef8f33"},"title":"Programming & Development","description":"Showcasing expertise in modern programming languages and frameworks.","skills":[{"logo":"javascript","name":"JavaScript","proficiency":"proficient"},{"logo":"python","name":"Python","proficiency":"proficient"},{"logo":"cpp","name":"C++","proficiency":"proficient"},{"logo":"typescript","name":"TypeScript","proficiency":"intermediate"},{"logo":"c","name":"C","proficiency":"intermediate"},{"logo":"java","name":"Java","proficiency":"intermediate"},{"logo":"go","name":"Go","proficiency":"beginner"}]}

skillsTable:
{"_id":{"$oid":"6739b799574b1123a7f9af5a"},"Labels":["Problem Solving","Data Analysis","Flexibility","Efficiency","Optimization"],"Scores":[{"$numberDouble":"4.9"},{"$numberDouble":"4.8"},{"$numberDouble":"4.7"},{"$numberDouble":"4.5"},{"$numberDouble":"4.8"}],"skillTitle":"Python","skillDescription":"Expert in Python with proficiency in data manipulation and algorithm design."}

yearInReviewTable:
{"_id":{"$oid":"6729a92ae07f902c756c5254"},"yearInReviewTitle":"Year-In-Review 2022 - 2023","yearInReviewLink":"year-in-review-2022---2023","yearInReviewImages":["https://i.ibb.co/XtmQGw4/BearChat.png","https://i.ibb.co/HxLgTD5/Japanese.jpg","https://i.ibb.co/N94JJ59/Library.png"],"yearInReviewSubTitle":"","yearInReviewTimeline":"","yearInReviewTagline":"My Year-In-Review for 2022-2023 highlights a transformative journey filled with academic achievements, personal growth, and impactful projects. From excelling in hackathons like MakeUC and Rev UC to embracing new cultural experiences, each milestone has strengthened my skills, confidence, and passion for continual learning and community impact.","yearInReviewParagraphs":["As I reflect on the past year, I am filled with an immense sense of pride and accomplishment. The year 2022-2023 has been a transformative journey, both personally and professionally, marked by a multitude of extraordinary experiences and significant personal growth. In this comprehensive year-in-review, I will take you through the remarkable moments and noteworthy achievements that have shaped my path and propelled me forward.","Let me begin by highlighting one of the standout moments of the year – my participation in the MakeUC Hackathon. Joined by a team of four exceptionally talented individuals, we embarked on a remarkable project that would make a lasting impact. Our endeavor involved the development of a virtual library utilizing Unity Game Developer and C#. The objective was to make educational books, which were previously inaccessible to the citizens of the United States, available to the public. Through this captivating journey, not only did I acquire invaluable knowledge in game development, but I also discovered a newfound fascination with various subjects explored within these books. It was an immensely gratifying experience to create something that had the potential to enhance knowledge and make a positive impact on the lives of others.","Another pivotal milestone in my journey of personal and professional growth was the COOP 1000 course. This extraordinary course revolutionized my perspective as a computer science student, equipping me with essential skills that have had a profound impact on my journey. Among these vital skills were effective communication, problem-solving prowess, and impeccable time management. Moreover, the course emphasized the significance of setting realistic goals and breaking down seemingly insurmountable challenges into smaller, manageable tasks. This newfound knowledge instilled in me an unwavering sense of confidence and determination, making me realize that with dedication and perseverance, I possess the ability to achieve greatness in my chosen career field.​","In addition to my academic pursuits, I embarked on a personal odyssey to learn the beautiful Japanese language. Fueled by my unwavering interest in Japanese culture and my passion for anime, I undertook the remarkable journey of learning Japanese to expand my horizons and deepen my understanding of a different culture. With the aid of various online resources and courses offered by the esteemed University of Cincinnati, I delved into the intricacies of mastering Hiragana and Katakana, laying a solid foundation for my future language explorations. This endeavor not only sharpened my communication skills but also nurtured a profound appreciation for the rich tapestry of Japanese culture.","Participating in the highly anticipated Rev UC Hackathon was yet another significant milestone that fortified my journey of growth and achievement. During this immersive experience, I devoted my skills to the creation of an ingenious voice assistant specifically tailored for UC students, which we fondly named BearChat. This remarkable project served as a testament to my expertise in machine learning, natural language processing, and web development. Leveraging the power of Python and employing a plethora of cutting-edge machine learning techniques, I successfully crafted a comprehensive voice assistant capable of providing real-time weather updates, precise time information, user location data, text-to-speech functionality, and even detailed building information for the prestigious University of Cincinnati. The recognition and accolades bestowed upon our project for the best use of Google APIs validated the extensive knowledge and expertise I had cultivated in my chosen field of study.","Beyond the realms of academia, I had the distinct honor of being an integral part of the esteemed National Residence Hall Honorary (NRHH). Immersing myself in this incredible organization provided me with unparalleled opportunities to contribute meaningfully to the residential community and create life-changing experiences for my fellow students. As a passionate advocate for the needs and concerns of international students, I worked tirelessly to foster inclusivity and promote cultural exchange on campus. My dedication and unwavering commitment were acknowledged, and I subsequently applied for an executive board position. With great delight, I was accepted as the Director of Values for the upcoming Fall 2023 semester. This tremendous opportunity fills me with immense enthusiasm as I eagerly anticipate the chance to continue contributing to the organization's growth and making a positive impact within the residential community.","Looking ahead, I am brimming with excitement and an insatiable thirst for new opportunities and challenges that lie on the horizon. Building upon the strong foundation I have established; I intend to seize every chance to further my personal and professional growth. The experiences of the past year have indubitably transformed me into a more confident, resilient, and well-rounded individual. I am grateful for the tremendous growth and accomplishments I have achieved, and I remain resolute in my determination to continually push the boundaries of my potential and reach new heights in all my future endeavors.","In conclusion, the year 2022-2023 stands as a pivotal period characterized by profound personal growth and remarkable achievements. From participating in awe-inspiring hackathons to broadening my cultural horizons, each experience has contributed to my overall development as an individual. I am grateful for the countless opportunities that have graced my path and the invaluable lessons I have learned along this remarkable journey. The year gone by has laid the groundwork for a future brimming with endless possibilities, and I embark upon the upcoming chapter of my life with unwavering excitement and anticipation."],"yearInReviewURLs":["https://devpost.com/software/librestricted","https://genki3.japantimes.co.jp/en/","https://devpost.com/software/bearchat"]}

